#291 not yet fixed - Need to address and fix issues mentioned by pipe (#300)
r-Techsupport/rTS_Wiki: docs/safety-security/tech-scams.md

---
layout: default
title: Tech Scams
nav_exclude: false
has_children: false
parent: Safety & Security
search_exclude: false
last_modified_date: 2024-06-23
redirect_from: /books/safety-and-security/page/scams
---
# Tech Scams
{: .no_toc}

{% include toc.md %}

Due to recent advancements in communication over the net, the modern internet is ripe with targets for scammers and shady characters trying to exploit others for their personal benefit, whether that is via scamming you out of your accounts, emails, or stealing your bank credentials and cratering your personal accounts. This document is to make you aware of common forms of scams and what precautions you should take before trusting another individual with personal details or accounts.

> This document is to provided you with details on the methods people use to take advantage of the unknowing and what they use to get people to trust them. This document will go into some of the forms people use to gain the "trust" of people, and if you already have fell victim to their scam, it will also discuss what you can do to hopefully recuperate your compromised information and accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page will go into how people take advantage of the unknowing, what methods they use to gain the trust of people, and what you can do if you already fell to their scam to hopefully recuperate your compromised information and accounts.
```

Another variant of this scam involves requests to download and “test” a program, or to review an image or PDF to verify its appearance/contents. The request to test a program should immediately raise suspicions, particularly if the individual in question has not previously engaged in any recognizable development activities. Developers typically exhibit signs of programming knowledge and often share their projects.

As for images or PDFs, they can sometimes conceal malicious code that executes upon opening. Receiving an unsolicited PDF for review should also be viewed with suspicion.

It’s crucial not to place unwarranted trust in friends when it comes to such requests. Always seek additional information regarding the file in question and attempt to verify their identity through alternative communication channels, such as WhatsApp, Discord, or Steam, if possible.

> ### Example of a compromized account scam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example of a compromised account scam
```

<details markdown="1">
<summary markdown=span>

>     _An example of one of these compromized account scams can be found by clicking here._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _An example of one of these compromised account scams can be found by clicking here._
```

### Verifying Website Links
When you receive a link, especially in an unsolicited message, it’s important not to click on it impulsively. Instead, take a moment to inquire about its content and purpose. This precaution can help you avoid landing on a fraudulent page designed to mimic a legitimate website. If you have any doubts about the authenticity of a site, take the time to cross-verify the link with the official site. This step can help confirm the legitimacy of the site and protect you from potential phishing attempts.

### Updating Browser and Antivirus Software

> Keeping your operating system and web browser updated is a key aspect of maintaining system security. Software updates often include patches for known vulnerabilities, which can significantly reduce the risk of a successful cyber attack. An updated system is less susceptible to malicious code execution, providing a safer environment for your online activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeping your operating system and web browser updated is a key aspect of maintaining system security. Software updates often include patches for known vulnerabilities, which can significantly reduce the risk of a successful cyberattack. An updated system is less susceptible to malicious code execution, providing a safer environment for your online activities.
```

### Confirming Sign-In Details
When signing into sites, it’s important to pay close attention to the details of the sign-in link. Make sure that the link directs you to the official login page of the respective site. Be wary of using QR codes for signing in, as they can easily obscure important details such as the sign-in destination. Despite their convenience, the use of QR codes can increase the risk of overlooking suspicious elements, potentially leading to security breaches.

### Implementing Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) and utilizing password managers
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is a highly recommended security measure that adds an extra layer of protection to your online accounts. By requiring verification from another device during sign-in, MFA significantly increases the difficulty for unauthorized users to gain access to your accounts. More details of MFA can be found in our [Multi-Factor Authentication wiki article](/docs/safety-security/mfa). Popular apps of MFA include, but are not limited to:

> - [Steamguard](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/06B0-26E6-2CF8-254C) (For Steam only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Steam Guard](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/06B0-26E6-2CF8-254C) (For Steam only)
```

This level of separation can significantly enhance your online security and privacy. It’s also crucial to be mindful of the personal information you share on these platforms. Sharing sensitive details such as your real name or date of birth can expose you to various risks, including identity theft. Therefore, it’s best to provide minimal personal information, especially on sites you’re unsure about.

The most critical aspect to consider is your financial security. It’s imperative to exercise extreme caution when it comes to online transactions. Never use your credit or debit card for any service that you do not fully trust or recognize. If a site or service seems suspicious or too good to be true, it probably is. Always research and verify the legitimacy of a site before providing any financial information.

## What you can do to recover your accounts - TODO

Should in case you fall for a scam and wish to recover your accounts, please follow the following steps to attempt to recover your accounts:

### 1. Terminate sessions on the accounts and resetting passwords

> The first step is to reset password and terminate sessions from said accounts. Steps to do so, including how to terminate sessions from common services and applications can be found [here](/docs/safety-security/session-hijack#terminating-sessions-from-services).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to reset passwords and terminate sessions from said accounts. You can learn how to do so, including how to terminate sessions from common services and applications can be found, [here](/docs/safety-security/session-hijack#terminating-sessions-from-services).
```

Most session hijacks can also be virulent in nature. If you suspect you have been affected by a virus where the attacker is using malware as a vector to access your accounts, you may need to reinstall Windows as a whole to completely remove said virus. More info on how to recover from a virulent attack can be found [here](/docs/safety-security/session-hijack#recommended-actions-in-the-event-of-suspected-session-hijacking).

### 2. Contact the support page of said services

The next step is to contact the support page and request for help to ensure you are safe. Said support contacts for popular/common applications can be found [here](/docs/safety-security/session-hijack#terminating-sessions-from-services).

### 3. Set up 2FA and MFA, start using password managers

Setting up 2FA or MFA is an excellent safety precaution to prevent attackers from logging in to the account. You can review setup of MFA and others [above in the "Implementing Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) and utilizing password managers" section.](/docs/safety-security/tech-scams#implementing-multi-factor-authentication-mfa-and-utilizing-password-managers)

> Using [password managers](/docs/safety-security/pw-managers) is also another extra safety precaution we highly recommend to ensure you use different passwords on different accounts. Using the same password for multiple accounts is bad practice and can lead the attackers to access other accounts on other services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using [password managers](/docs/safety-security/pw-managers) is also another extra safety precaution we highly recommend ensuring you use different passwords on different accounts. Using the same password for multiple accounts is bad practice and can lead the attackers to access other accounts on other services.
```
